.TH SPARQL 1  "October 29, 2009" "version 1.0" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
SPARQL \- Semantic Web toolbox
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B SPARQL
query
.PP
.B
SPARQL
\-f <query file>
.PP
.B
SPARQL
"INSERT {GRAPH <g> {<> a <document>} }" \-L text/trig \-i mydata.trig
.PP
.B
SPARQL
query viewfile*
.PP
Get started with "SPARQL help tutorial".

.SH DESCRIPTION
SPARQL is a general query re-write and execution tool.
.B
Viewfiles
define virtual views. The query is pushed backwards through the series of viewfiles.
.PP

.SH General options
.TP
\-h
full help message minus tutorial
.TP
\-H <topic>
general, query, data, authentication, SQL, tutorial
.TP
\-\-debug <level>
.TP
\-n
don't execute query
.TP
\-p
print final query
.TP
\-q
quiet
.TP
\-a
use ASCII\-only
.TP
\-8
use utf\-8
.TP
\-0
terminate lines with \\0
.TP
\-v
version (implies \-n)

.SH Key
.TP
<cwd>
current working directory -- e.g. /home/bob/stuff/ or C:/myStuff.
.TP
<relURI>
a URI relative to the currrent base: file://localhost/<cwd>
.TP
<relURI>|-
a relative URI or '-' meaning stdin/stdout
.TP
 |?
a '?' shows the current value or list available choices, implies -n.
.TP
<relURI>|.
a relative URI or '.' to use file://localhost/<cwd>
.PP
All arguments apply to all following arguments, e.g.
"-b http://a.example/foo/ -b bar -b ?" will show a final base URI of
"http://a.example/foo/bar".

.SH Query options
.TP
\-b <relURI>|.|?
base URI
.TP
\-B <relURI>|.|?
base URI for command line arguments
  "-b <foo> -B . -d bar.ttl"
sets the base URI for data and queries to <foo> but looks for bar.ttl in <cwd>.
.TP
\-f <relURI>|\-
read a query from relURI or stdin.

.SH Data options
.TP
\-d <relURI>|\-
read default graph from relURI or stdin.
.TP
\-g <name>|. <relURI>|\-
read relURI into a graph called name.
A graph name of '.' means to use the retrieval URI for the name.
  "\-g . http://swobj.org/SPARQL/v1" populates a graph with that name.
.TP
\-l <string>|guess|?
data language, e.g. turtle, or guess.  !! turtle, trig, rdfxml, guess
   "guess" indicates that SPARQL should guess from file extension.
.TP
\-L <media type>|?
data media type, e.g. text/turtle or text/plain. see
.B
data languages
   text/plain \-\- guess from the file extension
.TP
\-o <relURI>|\-
send results to relURI or stdout.
.TP
\-i <relURI>|\-
update relURI with the results of the query.
   This is the same as \-d for read\-only operations ASK, SELECT and DESCRIBE.
.TP
\-D
read application description graph (see section) into default graph.
.TP
\-G <name>
read application description graph into named graph.
.PP
SPARQL will "guess" that data from '\-' is trig and output is either a table
or trig.

.SH Data languages

   text/turtle			  turtle
   text/trig			  trig
   application/rdf+xml		  rdfxml
   application/sparql\-results+xml sparql
   text/plain			  guess
				  table  (report only)

.SH Authentication options
.TP
\-u username
.TP
\-p password

.SH HTTP Options
.TP
\-\-header= <header pair>
assign header value
  "\-\-header 'Accept: text/turtle,text/html;q=.8'" prefers turtle over HTML.
.TP
\-\-header+ <header pair>
append earlier value of header.

.SH SQL options
.TP
\-s <stem url>
.TP
\-S <string>|?
odbc\-style SQL database
   driver://[username[:password]@]host[:port]/database
   mysql://localhost/orders
.TP
\-m <relURI>
mapset file, which supplies above parameters

.SH Application description graph
  @prefix doap: <http://usefulinc.com/ns/doap#> .
  <> a doap:Project ;
     doap:homepage <http://swobj.org/SPARQL/v1> ;
     doap:shortdesc "a semantic web query toolbox" .

.SH Tutorial:
SPARQL \-D "SELECT ?proj ?page WHERE {?proj <http://usefulinc.com/ns/doap#homepage> ?page}"
.PP
SPARQL "SELECT ?s?p?o FROM <http://swobj.org/SPARQL/v1> WHERE {?s<BAR>?o}"
  table to stdout
.PP
SPARQL "SELECT ?s?p?o WHERE {?s<BAR>?o}" \-d data.ttl >> table to stdout
.PP
SPARQL "SELECT ?s?p?o FROM NAMED <data.ttl> WHERE { GRAPH <data.ttl> {?s<BAR>?o} }" >> table to stdout
.PP
SPARQL "SELECT ?s?p?o WHERE { GRAPH <data.ttl> {?s<BAR>?o} }" \-g . data.ttl >> table to stdout
.PP
SPARQL "SELECT ?s?p?o WHERE { GRAPH <foo.ttl> {?s<BAR>?o} }" \-g foo.ttl data.ttl >> table to stdout
.PP
cat data.ttl | SPARQL "SELECT ?s?p?o WHERE { GRAPH <foo.ttl> {?s<BAR>?o} }" \-g foo.ttl \- >> table to stdout
.PP
SPARQL "CONSTRUCT {?s<foo>?o} WHERE {?s<BAR>?o}" \-d data.ttl >> ttl to stdout
.PP
SPARQL "CONSTRUCT {?s<foo>?o} WHERE {?s<BAR>?o}" \-i data.ttl >> re\-write data.ttl, count to stdout

.SH Return code:
.TP
0:
no erors
.TP
1:
file system error

.SH AUTHOR
Eric Prud'hommeaux (eric (at) w3.org)
.SH SEE ALSO
SPARQL_server(1)
